So let's get started. Let's start by creating a component that will control the health of our character.
In this course, we will work closely with components and try to encapsulate
all the features in these components so as not to inflate the main character class.
Go to the folder with components, right-click, create a new class.
We will inherit from the actor component class. Select it, click the next button.
Let's call our health component STUHealthComponent.
Click the create class button.
So, our component has been created. The first thing we will do with you is change the bCanEverTick variable to false.
We don't need Tick in this class. We will process all the logic on events,
so we can optimize a little and remove the TickComponent function from the class altogether.
So we cleaned up the .cpp file, formatted it. Let's go to the .h file.
We will also remove the TickComponent function declaration and any unnecessary comments.
We'll start with the most important variable that will be responsible for the health of our character.
We create a private section.
The variable will be of type float. We call it Health and assign a default value of 0.
Let's create a public getter function for this variable that will return its value.
We call it GetHealth.
The body of the function will consist of one statement - return Health;
We will leave this function in the .h file, because it is one-line. There is nothing wrong with that and do not forget
about the const modifier, because the function inside we will not change anything.
We also need an additional variable that will be responsible for the maximum life value
and also for the default value of the Health variable. Name it MaxHealth and set it to 100.
Let's also make this variable a property so that we can change its value in the editor.
We will only change it in the default settings.
So let's write EditDefaultsOnly and let's add BlueprintReadWrite as well.
Go to the .cpp file and assign the Health variable to the MaxHealth variable on BeginPlay.
That is, every time the game starts, or our character
spawns again, his life value will be equal to MaxHealth.
Let's create this component in our character, go to the character class, copy the uproperty macro, declare the component.
We call it HealthComponent.
Add the forward declaration of our component, go to the character .cpp file.
Let's include the header file for our component.
We create this component in the constructor. Everything is as usual.
The only difference from other components will be
that this component is purely logical, that is, it has no scene, no representation.
Therefore, we will not call the SetupAttachment function.
So, we've created a health component in character. Let's make the health value
from this component appear on top of the character in some text field.
For this we need a special component called TextRenderComponent.
Let's create this component, copy the property macro. The component is of type UTextRenderComponent.
Let's call this variable HealthTextComponent.
We also add a forward declaration for this component. Go to the .cpp file, include the header file.
This component is located at Components / TextRenderComponent.h
In the constructor of the class, we create this component.
Let's attach this component to the root component.
Soon we will see in the editor how this component looks like, what settings it has.
Let's do one thing now to finish the code.
In the Tick function, each frame we will pass to the health component the value of the health variable.
To do this, we create a local variable health. We set its value from the component.
The TextRenderComponent has a function called SetText.
It takes a variable of type FText. This is one of the UE string types. We will use a
static function of the FText class called FromString and convert our Health variable to FString.
To do this, we will use the static function Printf.
And let's create a string that will only contain our variable. The only thing that we will indicate
is the precision for float, put 0, that is, we will display it as an integer
and pass Health as an argument. In fact, we can not use the additional function FString,
but use the functions that are available in FText, but these functions are directly
related to localization (with translation), so we will not consider them with you for now.
We'll do everything through FString. Also, if you paid attention to these components, we do not check for a null pointer.
Our character cannot exist without these components,
so we make the assumption that they are nonzero and created, but we can check with you on BeginPlay
using the check macro, which will generate an assertion if these components are null.
This macro works only in development and debug environments, that is, during development,
we can find this error if, for example, we have not created these components in the constructor.
And in the shipping assembly, it is ignored, so this will not affect the speed of our program in any way.
We open the blueprint with our character. We check that our components have been created.
In the component tree, we see the health component in details, it has the MaxHealth variable.
You and I can change it as we want, perhaps it should be limited so that there are no negative appointments.
And we also see that the TextRender component has been created.
It looks like this in the blueprint. In the details panel, we can adjust some of the
properties of this component, for example, change the alignment. Now it is left, we will put it in the center.
Let's change the color as well. Let's set some turquoise.
Move the text a little higher so that it is above the character. And since we have a camera on the back, let's rotate it 180 degrees.
Let's change the default text value, let it be 0. Compile.
Let's check in the game. Click play.
And on top of the character, the number of lives is displayed, that is, each frame we set the text value in the TextRenderComponent
depending on our health variable. Let's check the work with some other
value of the MaxHealth variable, for example, 35. Compile. Click play. Lives = 35.
Let's see how the check macro works. To do this, let's assume that we forgot
to create a health component. That is, the pointer will be null. Compile.
Let's try to start our group and immediately on BeginPlay we get assertion.
Thus, using the check macro, we can secure ourselves and be sure
that all assumptions about the correct operation of the program are met.
Finally, let's limit our MaxHealth variable to the minimum and maximum values. To do this, go to the movement component
and copy the meta specifier ClampMin, ClampMax. We insert into the property of our MaxHealth.
Change ClampMin to 0.
And set the ClampMax value to one thousand and add a category for this property, let it be Health.
This concludes this lesson with you.